README.md, before:

# PulseEffects

Limiter, compressor, reverberation, stereo equalizer and auto volume effects for
Pulseaudio applications

![](images/pulseeffects.png)
![](images/pulseeffects_equalizer.png)
![](images/pulseeffects_calibration.png)

Order of effects applied to applications output:

1. Input Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
2. Auto Volume
3. Stereo Panorama (Gstreamer)
4. Compressor (Ladspa SC4)
5. Freeverb (Gstreamer)
6. Equalizer Input Gain (Gstreamer volume)
7. Butterworth Highpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
8. Butterworth Lowpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
9. 15 bands Equalizer (Gstreamer)
10. Equalizer Output Gain (Gstreamer volume)
11. Output Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
12. Spectrum Analyzer (Gstreamer)

Since version 2.0.0 PulseEffects is capable of applying effects to microphone
output at the same time it applies them for applications output:

1. Input Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
2. Compressor (Ladspa SC4)
3. Freeverb (Gstreamer)
4. Equalizer Input Gain (Gstreamer volume)
5. Butterworth Highpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
6. Butterworth Lowpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
7. 15 bands Equalizer (Gstreamer)
8. Equalizer Output Gain (Gstreamer volume)
9. Output Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
10. Spectrum Analyzer (Gstreamer)

## Build and install

Users upgrading from 1.x to 2.x will have to rebuild their presets. Since
version 2.0.0 PulseEffects uses a different format. This
change was necessary to support presets for microphone processing.

```
$ meson _build --prefix=/usr
$ cd _build
$ sudo ninja install
```

### GNU/Linux Packages

- [Arch Linux](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/pulseeffects/)

Ubuntu >=17.10 repository:
```
wget -q -O- http://repo.dumalogiya.ru/keys/mikhailnov_pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb http://repo.dumalogiya.ru/aptly/public artful main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dumalogiya-artful.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt install pulseeffects
```

### Flatpak

[Flatpak](https://flatpak.org) packages support multiple distributions and are sandboxed.

Stable releases are hosted on [Flathub](https://flathub.org):

```
$ flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo
$ flatpak install flathub com.github.wwmm.pulseeffects
```

### Source Code

Required libraries:

- Python 3
- Python configparser (Included with Python3 > 3.5.0. There is
  no need to install it.)
- [PyGObject](https://pygobject.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Python Cairo](https://cairographics.org/pycairo/)
- [Python Numpy](http://www.numpy.org/)
- [Python Scipy](https://scipy.org/scipylib/) (0.18 or above)
- Gtk 3.18 or above
- Gstreamer, Gstreamer Plugins Good, Gstreamer Plugins Bad and Gstreamer Python
 (Since version 1.4.3 Pulseeffects needs Gstreamer 1.12 or above)
- [swh-plugins](https://github.com/swh/ladspa) from Ladspa

See the wiki: [Installing from Source](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Installation-from-Source), for detailed instructions.

### Build Debian/Ubuntu .deb package
```
$ debuild -I
```
The built deb package will be located in ../

## Command Line Options

See the wiki: [Command Line Options](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Command-Line-Options)

## Translating PulseEffects

See the wiki: [Translating PulseEffects](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Translating-PulseEffects), for detailed instructions.

Commit message:

Fix issues with documentation
The recent introduction of debian build files also modified the
documentation in less than ideal ways.

This fix solves this by staying consistent with previous changes that
moved distribution specific instructions to the wiki. Specifically a
wiki page for community maintained distribution packages is introduced
and linked to.

Build instructions is removed altogether since it has long since had a
dedicated wiki page. Some instructions were incomplete anyhow or located
in the wrong section.

Showing incomplete build instructions at the top is bad, because it
decreases the likelihood of a user reading the complete wiki page, thus
missing information. This in turn leads to an increase in support issues.

README.md, after:

# PulseEffects

Limiter, compressor, reverberation, stereo equalizer and auto volume effects for
Pulseaudio applications

![](images/pulseeffects.png)
![](images/pulseeffects_equalizer.png)
![](images/pulseeffects_calibration.png)

Order of effects applied to applications output:

1. Input Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
2. Auto Volume
3. Stereo Panorama (Gstreamer)
4. Compressor (Ladspa SC4)
5. Freeverb (Gstreamer)
6. Equalizer Input Gain (Gstreamer volume)
7. Butterworth Highpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
8. Butterworth Lowpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
9. 15 bands Equalizer (Gstreamer)
10. Equalizer Output Gain (Gstreamer volume)
11. Output Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
12. Spectrum Analyzer (Gstreamer)

Since version 2.0.0 PulseEffects is capable of applying effects to microphone
output at the same time it applies them for applications output:

1. Input Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
2. Compressor (Ladspa SC4)
3. Freeverb (Gstreamer)
4. Equalizer Input Gain (Gstreamer volume)
5. Butterworth Highpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
6. Butterworth Lowpass filter (Gstreamer audiocheblimit)
7. 15 bands Equalizer (Gstreamer)
8. Equalizer Output Gain (Gstreamer volume)
9. Output Limiter (Ladspa Fast Lookahead Limiter)
10. Spectrum Analyzer (Gstreamer)

## Installation

Users upgrading from 1.x to 2.x will have to rebuild their presets. Since
version 2.0.0 PulseEffects uses a different format. This
change was necessary to support presets for microphone processing.

### GNU/Linux Packages

- [Arch Linux](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/pulseeffects/)

#### Community Packages

These are community maintained repositories of distribution packages. You can
find more information about these in the
[wiki](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Package-Repositories#package-repositories).

- [Ubuntu](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Package-Repositories#ubuntu-1710-and-newer)

### Flatpak

[Flatpak](https://flatpak.org) packages support multiple distributions and are sandboxed.

Stable releases are hosted on [Flathub](https://flathub.org):

```
flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo
flatpak install flathub com.github.wwmm.pulseeffects
```

### Source Code

Required libraries:

- Python 3
- Python configparser (Included with Python3 > 3.5.0. There is
  no need to install it.)
- [PyGObject](https://pygobject.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Python Cairo](https://cairographics.org/pycairo/)
- [Python Numpy](http://www.numpy.org/)
- [Python Scipy](https://scipy.org/scipylib/) (0.18 or above)
- Gtk 3.18 or above
- Gstreamer, Gstreamer Plugins Good, Gstreamer Plugins Bad and Gstreamer Python
 (Since version 1.4.3 Pulseeffects needs Gstreamer 1.12 or above)
- [swh-plugins](https://github.com/swh/ladspa) from Ladspa

#### Installing from Source

See the wiki: [Installing from Source](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Installation-from-Source), for detailed instructions.

## Command Line Options

See the wiki: [Command Line Options](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Command-Line-Options)

## Translating PulseEffects

See the wiki: [Translating PulseEffects](https://github.com/wwmm/pulseeffects/wiki/Translating-PulseEffects), for detailed instructions.
